# Pipeline to characterise Resistance Associated Variants (RAVs) to the newly approved anti-tuberculosis drugs Delamanid, Pretomanid, Bedaquiline, Clofazimine and Linezolid from  Whole genome sequences 
# Background
Drug-resistant Tuberculosis (TB) undermines the effort to curb TB disease. It is associated with higher treatment costs, longer treatment periods and more adverse effects. Recently, three new (Delamanid, Bedaquiline and Pretomanid) and two re-purposed drugs (Linezolid and Clofazimine) have been approved to treat drug-resistant TB. MTB has acquired resistance to most drugs used to treat it with in 5-10 years of clinical use, this has occurred even faster for the newly introduced drugs (Bedaquiline, Clofazimine, Linezolid and Delamanid.). Despite their recent introduction, cases of resistance have been reported for all these drugs and some have been in patients with no documented prior exposures to these drugs. This study was set out to establish the prevalence of resistance-associated variants to the new and re-purposed anti-TB drugs using whole genome sequences derived from isolates from a drug resistance survey.
# Methodology
Briefly, the genomic reads were visualized for quality using FastQC and MultiQC; followed by adapter sequence contamination screening and quality trimming using Trimmomatic. The reads were then aligned to the NC_000962.3 reference H37Rv genome, while variants and variant annotation was done using Freebaayes and Snpeff, respectively. Custom bash scripts were used to identify potential resistance-conferring mutations in the genes Rv0678, pepQ, and Rv1979c for both Bedaquiline and Clofazimine resistance while the atpE gene was also included for Bedaquline resistance. Genes fbiA, fbiB, fbiC, Rv2983, fgd1, and ddn were interrogated for potential resistance-conferring variants to Delamanid and Pretomanid, while for Linezolid resistance, the genes rplC, rrl, were analysed. Further analysis is done in R and Python
